everyone talks about how great AMD CPUs
are but according to the steam Hardware
survey Intel is still the one holding
the bulk of the ground in the CPU War
but if you talk to any Enthusiast
they'll gush on and on about how much
they love AMD CPUs so just what in the
ever Goblin parting is everyone actually
buying on Amazon right now oh it is AMD
it's all AMD with even two generation
old ryzen chips pitching in to kick
Intel completely out of the top 10 list
and 3D vcash taking every spot on the
podium which wait speaking of two
generation old chips now am4 is on top
again with all the holiday sales going
on right now the only constant is
Intel's complete absence at the top of
the sales charts with only their older
generation selling at all meaning that
the steam Hardware survey is based on
anci sales and things are shifting Big
Time yikes so let's break down the chips
y'all are buying and talk about why and
talk about our sponsor MSI their newest
addition to the Aegis rs2 AI series of
pre-built PCS is here and packed full of
the latest and greatest for all your AAA
gaming needs unpack your own ready too
Powerhouse by clicking our link today
[Music]
when we first sat down to look at CPU
sales Trends the 9800 x3d was
comfortably in first place thanks to the
Feeding Frenzy that took place after
what was arguably the most exciting
gaming CPU launch in the last 2 and 1/2
years but now it's completely out of
stock and it's being scalped hard even
on non-auction sites like Amazon making
matters worse the word on the street is
that a significant restock of this thing
isn't expected until January so for
anyone who was hoping to put the atomic
number 14 under the Christmas tree this
year that ain't going to cut it so how's
option two looking here actually not too
bad after all the 7800 x3d was in first
place for quite a while before the new
hotness came along and it's pretty
similar to the new one both of them
feature eight full fat cores and 16
threads 96 MB of level three cache it's
just that the newer 9800 X3 runs faster
in its base and boost clocks and has
some generational IPC uplift thanks to
Zen 5 processing it is also
overclockable but let's be real it's not
like the old hat was so slow that you
needed to overclock It Anyway the 7800
x3d is not just pretty fast though it is
straight up the best rated item that we
have ever featured in this series with
an absolutely unbelievable 4.9 Stars
sure that is based on fewer ratings than
the Beloved 3600 non X that we featured
last time around but it's also got a lot
more competition from other gaming chips
like the 5700 x3d which is here in third
spot we'll talk about that later though
because right now I want to know what a
one-star review even looks like when it
only makes up about 2% of the overall
reviews let's see Billy had memory
controller issues that's no good Ben
hated Amazon's customer service a few
people had their chips die pun intended
anywhere from a few weeks to a few
months after purchase there's the odd
product missing scam and then multiple
others were upset that they didn't get a
Jedi Survivor or avatar game code along
with their product so wow even the
people who were pissed about this thing
were mostly pretty happy with the actual
processor as for the overwhelmingly good
reviews it's basically an endlessly
scrolling page of titles like amazing
CPU best gaming CPU on the market and
huge upgrade our own review when it came
out boiled down to yeah it's the best
gaming CPU on the market it's just that
it's kind of expensive and unfortunately
it still is even though it's been
replaced in amd's product lineup see
here's the thing most of the time when
the new generation comes out the last
generation goes on sale but the 7800 x3d
is still selling for
$480 about $30 over MSRP which has AMD
kind of looking like that smug Facebook
Market Marketplace seller saying no low
balls I know what I've got and the
unfortunate part is AMD is not wrong
when we tested the 9800 X 3D more
recently it clearly beat its predecessor
which has contributed to its gangbuster
sales but the thing is it didn't beat it
by as much as some people hoped at least
outside of extreme examples like rocket
league and Stellaris and the reality is
unless you are competitively gaming at
1080P and you need a chip that does well
enough and productivity there are other
cheaper options remember that 5700x 3D
that I mentioned earlier it goes for as
little as
$200 that is less than half of what
you'll pay for an am5 x3d chip I mean
sure am4 is a dead platform but it's
also a significantly cheaper platform
especially if you're willing to pick up
some used parts like a motherboard and
ddr4 memory in fact you could build most
of your new to you PC for about the
price of just one of our best-selling
chips which frees up more of your budget
for what really matters for a gaming PC
the
GPU as we saw during our review of the
9800 x3d even with the fastest GPU on
the market for now anyway once you go
past 1080p the bottleneck swings hard
toward the GPU and the affordability of
good 1440p gaming monitors and 4K 120 HZ
TVs has never been better so if you want
a great gaming experience today day
without wasting a dollar am4 plus a
better display is kind of still my
go-to but if you want to be able to
upgrade your system without doing a
complete rebuild entrylevel am5 has some
standout deals right now as well with a
ryzen 7 7700x going for just
$267 at the time of filming that's still
an 8 core 16 thread processor but at
only a little over half the price of the
7800 X3 D you are going to give up some
gaming performance even at higher
resolutions and settings but assuming
let's say 1,000 budget that gives you
over $200 extra to throw at your GPU or
spend on a nicer monitor or hey maybe a
desk upgrade like this Northern Lights
desk pad from LTD store.com now so far
most of this wasn't much of a surprise
lots of people want the best of the best
and for everyone else bang for the buck
chips well those are a great choice too
but something that did surprise me was
just how different the sales mix looks
between amd's X CPUs and they're more
budget friendly non-x CPUs as I
mentioned before the last time we did
this the chip we featured was the ryzen
5 3600 to date that has over
43,000 ratings while the 3600 x has
barely over 12,000 to be clear 12,000
ratings that's a lot they were both
great chips but AMD had a big problem
when it came to selling the X it was $50
more for a performance difference that
ended up being mostly theoretical Now
intel solved this problem within their
lineup by artificially limiting
overclocking and boost speeds on their
nonk CPUs but AMD at least at the time
took a more consumer friendly approach
and left their entire lineup
unlocked well seems like AMD may have
learned learned a lesson from all of
that because now a few Generations later
non-x versions just aren't available
alongside their x-r Partners at launch
instead AMD launches the beefy version
with full Fanfare then quietly releases
the exess variant later how much later
well seems like that depends when am5
debuted eager customers were stuck
waiting months if they wanted to save a
buck on a slightly slower 7,000 series
and as for 9,000
it'll be December by the time this video
goes live and we haven't seen so much as
a rumored release date for non-x 9000
variants I guess that's what happens
when the closest thing to a competing
product from Intel is a CPU that used to
be a lake before it took something to
the knee um what was it something it was
our uh
Arrangement uh to give you this message
from our sponsor delete me your online
privacy is no joke so skip the funny
business and add another layer to your
digital production with delete me they
comb the web for data you want to keep
private such as email addresses and
phone numbers and their representatives
will reach out on your behalf and
request them to be removed the big
culprit that all those cold calls you
keep getting are from data Brokers which
take your info and then sell it to the
highest bidder well delete me has a
growing list of over 750 of them that
they remove data from plus with their
new family plans you and your loved ones
can receive the protection delete me
provides it's easy to add members and
manage them from One dashboard with each
user getting their own data sheet so you
can actually track what information is
being removed and from where so join
delet me.com lt20 or click the link in
our description and use code lt20 at
checkout for 20% off the plan that fits
your needs if you guys enjoyed this
video make sure to check out the last
time we looked at the top selling CPU a
lot of those same rules for picking the
right CPU for your rig are truly
timeless